Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the equity verse. Today we're going
to talk about SpaceX and how it has
retraced the IPO gains. If you guys like
the content, make sure you subscribe to
the channel, give the video a thumbs up,
and also check out the sale on into the
cryptoverse premium at into the
cryptoverse.com.
We put out a video
last week when SpaceX launched and one
of the things we we talked about a lot
is how what often happens when you have
IPOs is that there'll be this initial
surge in price and then often times
um I believe approximately 90% although
I'm not 100% sure about that that
statistic but I think about 90%
of a lot of the IPOs do eventually to
eventually trade below where they opened
up at. And we talked about that last
week. And you know, sure enough, not
even a week later, SpaceX gave back all
the IPO gains. And so this is the SpaceX
chart. There's not really a whole lot to
work with. And in fact, this is one of
the few times where it might make sense
to look at like 4hour charts just
because we don't really have a lot of
data. But what's remarkable is just how
frequently IPOs do this, right? They go
up, there's the initial surge in hype,
we give it all back, and then we figure
out like what the actual so quote
unquote fair value is of of the company.
Now, we made a comparison to the Tesla
IPO. Now, the first thing I'll say, and
I I believe I said in the video back
then, is that the market cap of SpaceX
at launch, no pun intended, is a lot
higher than the market cap of Tesla when
it launched. Be that as it may, I still
think that SpaceX could be just as
disruptive disruptive as Tesla, if not
more so eventually.
When we were looking at the Tesla
launch, we said, "Well, why why compare?
Why make the comparison at all?" Well,
they're both run they're both the the
CEO of both companies, um founder, well,
I guess not of SpaceX, but the person
who runs both companies, Elon Musk. When
did the IPOs launch?
June, right? you have June 12th of 2026
for SpaceX and for Tesla it was June
29th of 2010.
So both run by Elon Musk IPOs that both
launched in June. Also the IPOs were
launched in June of a midterm year. So
2026 for SpaceX, 2010 for Tesla. So, a
lot of of similarities and and the
similarities continue in the sense that
after Tesla launched
um after we had the the the launch here
by by Tesla, what happened is we got
this move up to the tune from the launch
it went up about 60%.
Okay, about 60%. Now, what's interesting
is from the launch of SpaceX, so if you
look at SpaceX, how far did it go up?
About 50%. But again, the market cap's
different. It takes exponentially more
money to move the market cap of SpaceX
than Tesla when they were launched
because the market cap of Tesla was just
so much lower. A counterpoint to that is
the money supply is up a lot from from
back then. So while the market caps may
be different and they still are
different when you adjust for inflation,
you know, things do trend up over time.
At least good assets trend up over time.
So you have SpaceX going up 50% at
launch, Tesla going up 60. And then the
similarities continue and and we'll talk
about where they may eventually differ.
after
the Tesla IPO, we went below that
4 days later and then we found a low 5
days later
and from the high
Tesla dropped
50%. Now you look at SpaceX and as
measured from the high it's dropped
about
34%.
And it did it over the course of about
four to five days, right? Maybe a little
bit longer. It took six bars, I guess.
But there are a lot of similarities
between these two launches. Now, here's
where it could start to differ. Uh, and
and you know, depending on what IPOs
you're looking at, they they play out in
a very different format or they they
play out very differently.
Well, essentially what I said is that,
you know, to expect the first pop in
SpaceX to fade back down to the IPO lows
and then from there, you'll likely see
SpaceX try to form a low. Now, when you
think about every stock, you have to
think about the idiosyncratic risk of
that stock and the market risk. Let's go
see what what was
uh the S&P doing.
Um
let's go see what the S&P 500 was doing
back in 2010. Okay? Because we've
obviously made some sort of provided
some thoughts about what the S&P might
do this year. In 2010,
what you'll see is the S&P had a a small
correction,
very small correction at the very
beginning of the year, about a 9% drop.
We then had another correction sort of
in the middle part of the year. And then
we had a large move up from a July low.
So from a July low where the July low
took out the February low.
You see that the July low in 2010 took
out the February low. So when you think
about how Tesla played out, the low that
was formed in July corresponded to the
S&P putting in a low and the low for the
S&P was a lower low compared to
February. And then
there was another correction, but it
didn't occur until the next year. But
you see that?
Look at how and I know the nuances are
are you know somewhat tricky but the
the low in in the early part of the year
the year January February we took out
that low in the S&P in late June early
July and when we took out that low that
is where Tesla bottomed and Tesla never
went below that low ever again but one
of the reasons it never went below that
low ever again is because when you look
at the S&P
The S&P also actually never went below
that low and that's been 16 years ago.
Now, where are we today? Okay, so today
the S&P put in a low in March, but the
S&P is nowhere near taking out that low,
right? So, the idiosyncratic risk is
there, but the market risk is a little
bit different, right? because often
times there is a larger correction at
some point kind of going into the back
half of midterm year in 2010 that
correction actually occurred uh starting
in in late late April early May right
that's when we had that like 17% drop
and that was after an initial
10% drop in 2026 we had about a 10% drop
but we haven't really had a second drop
not that. Now if you look at 2014 you'll
see something similar. There was a drop
at the beginning of the year that was
about say 6%. The drop later in the year
was about 10. In 2018 the first drop in
the beginning of the year of the midterm
year was about 12. The second drop later
in the year was about 20. And in LA in
2022 you can see the first drop you
could argue about 14 15% all the way up
to even 24% depending on how far you go.
And then the second big drop was about
20% as well. So, I think the argument
here is that it's not yet clear if we've
had that second drop yet in the S&P 500.
And I don't really think we've ha we've
had it yet. A lot of times you'll see
the S&P find a local top in the second
half of the year. Sometimes it could go
on until September. In 2018, I believe
it was Yeah, it was it was September
where the market topped. In 2014, it was
also September before you had a larger
drop, right? like you had a very brief
pullback into August and then a larger
drop later in the year.
So I guess the point is is to say as it
relates to SpaceX is the market it's not
exactly the same setup as 2010. But what
I would say is that like 2010 whatever
the price ends up doing you could argue
that in the back half of the year it was
a fairly good accumulation zone for
Tesla. even though it didn't move for
years and and that's the reality is, you
know, it it it obviously looking back on
it now, it was a great accumulation
zone, but you have to also keep in mind
that that spike we had on the IPO launch
day, we didn't durably get above that
level and not look back until 2 and a
half years later. So, I think it would
be prudent for people to kind of
recognize, hey, this might take a while.
And also, you know, we're likely going
to see prices stay somewhat suppressed
for the rest of the year in alignment
with the second half of the year midterm
weakness. Now, if the S&P 500 were to
drop and say take out the March low or
if it were to get even bigger drop and
say drop like 20%. From that level, I
could see SpaceX forming a low that then
holds for a a you know, for a really
long time. But because we haven't really
had that yet, it's not yet clear if that
is the case. Uh but I would say this
over the long haul, I do not recommend
bet betting against against Elon Musk. I
just the the first video I put out by
SpaceX,
I just wanted to caution people that
were FOMOing into this rally and to say,
look guys, a lot of times we give back
these IPO gains, okay? And this is what
happens a lot of times and and we've
done it again. Now, there are some IPOs
that continue to bleed for a while like
they don't like we compare to Tesla. If
you look at and I'm just looking at
successful companies, right? Right? Like
if you're just looking at at some of
these successful companies that have
existed uh and still do like Apple is a
good example of an IPO where obviously
Apple has been incredibly successful.
You had a surge after the IPO. You had a
drop and then it dropped further because
we ended up getting a recession, but it
didn't it didn't really matter as time
went on. You could argue that in in this
case uh Apple launched at the very end
of 1980. let's just call it early 1981
because it was essentially early it was
very very end of 1980 and then it
bottomed um about 18 months later. Okay.
But again with Apple you would argue
that this entire window right here was a
fairly good accumulation zone for Apple.
So when you think about IPO launches,
usually what happens is you rally, you
then come out, come back down and take
out the IPO levels and then you get
another rally and then you get another
drop.
Look at Apple. With Apple, it was IPO
rally, sweep the low, lower high,
recession, and then the rest is history.
for Tesla. For Tesla, it was rally up,
sweep the low, rally up again, and then
it was a higher low, but there was also
no recession, right? So, you see the
difference. So, what I would argue here
with SpaceX is, you know, you're
sweeping the low now.
Could take a little bit of time. Like,
it doesn't have to happen over a day. It
could be it could happen over a couple
of weeks. You'll likely see another
rally. And then from there, whether it's
a higher high or lower high will will
probably help us figure out if maybe the
low at the end of the year is a higher
low or a lower low. And again, I I don't
have the answer for you on that. I'm
just looking at at like how these trends
tend to play out. And usually with IPOs,
you rally, you give it back, you go a
little below the IPO price, you rally
again, and then depending on if it's a
higher high or lower high. Well, then
kind of, and regardless of whether it's
a higher high or lower high, you will
likely get one more pullback later in
the year that would align with the
correction, the sort of the back half of
the year, midterm correction with the
S&P 500. And that I think, you know,
will continue to offer opportunities. I
do not recommend again betting against
Elon Musk. For me, I will look to
accumulate SpaceX, especially in the
second half of this year. It's not
financial advice. I just, you know, I I
got really bullish on Tesla a long time
ago and and it took a long time for the
market to ever care and then eventually
it went up. And I think SpaceX is going
to go through something similar. There's
going to be some fear about whether it's
going to ever be profitable, stuff like
that. But I think in, you know, when you
look back on this in 20 years, it's
going to be very disruptive. even though
in the short term it might not appear as
as obvious. So those are my thoughts on
SpaceX. Hopefully the video that we put
out last week was helpful uh in in
keeping people sort of on the right side
of this sort of FOMO rally. Um but those
are my thoughts about SpaceX. If you
guys like the content, make sure you
subscribe, give the video a thumbs up,
and again check out the sale on ITC
premium at into the cryptoverse.com.
I'll see you guys next time. Bye.